So now we have the next question which is,
we were able to manage all
the state in our application.
But what about like the end results,
the total price for
a given item based on the price and the
quantity, the sub-total of all the items.
To the Tip Amount, which is multiplied
by a decimal based on the tip,
and then the total which has
the Subtotal on the Tip Amount.
One of the things that I have seen
that I would like to have a word with
everyone about.
Is I have seen times where
the approach is to then all right,
what I'm gonna do is,
I'm gonna store the subtotal in state.
And I'm gonna store the tip amount, I see
some eyebrows already going like that's
the right [LAUGH] yes,
his head's shaking all right.
I'm gonna store that stuff in state and
then I'm gonna try to update
it when everything changes.
That you will lose days of your
life when you eventually make
some kind of mistake and can't keep
all those pieces of data in sync.
So the rule that I would like
to implant in your brain is,
only store the stuff you need to.
In the same way for our actions, as little
as we can get away with in the action.
I would like to store as little data as
possible in the actual store itself.
Anything that I can figure out by
taking two or more pieces of data and
combining them,
I will figure it out on the fly.
Now, a common complaint that I get is,
well, what if it's like we're gonna
multiply some numbers in this application,
let's be real clear.
But you can see as well
it's very expensive.
So we should just hold on to it and
we just store it in state.
We have a solution for that.
We will get to that in a second, right?
Again, a lot of times we should actually
solve the real problem, not just grab for
the most obvious answer.
So we'll look at like how to actually
mentalize and cash values and
a little bit.
But first of all, the other thing
that we can do in map state to props,
is use the ability to take two maybe,
for instance, the Total, right?
That's not stored in state, but
map state to props can also do
some of that figuring out what
the props should be that gets passed
in based on the actual state as well.
It doesn't just have to take
the item from our store and
then pass it in, or whatever.
It can also figure stuff out and
map it to the value that this
particular component needs.
So if we look at the Sub-total Tip Amount,
those are props that the summary
component takes, we don't need
to store a sub-total instead.
We can go figure it out.
Based on the data that's in the state and
pass it into the component as
a prop using map state to props.
So I'm gonna create a summary
container in here and
we'll go call it SummaryContainer.js.
And we'll start with this mapStateToProps.
MapStateToProps is going to take
instance of all the state that we have.
And then really we need to
figure out the subtotal.
Anyone have a quick and easy way, there's
multiple ways that we could do this.
I will live code the first one,
that is easily live codable
that one of you volunteer.
>> Are you saying that we should go over,
and see the quantity and
of the items times their price?
>> Yeah just add them together.
>> Yep, but
I need all of them together, so
I need not only ,this is the entire bill.
So I need any given items total price and
then I need all of them together.
>> So I guess what you're saying is,
should we iterate over the items?
>> Yep.
>> And then just sum them up.
>> We can iterate over some, we can use
reduce, which one makes me happier?
>> Reduce doesn't make me happy.
[LAUGH] [CROSSTALK] But
that's just because I'm kinda a novice.
But either way, [CROSSTALK]
>> Let's go.
>> Let's say that
subtotal will start at 0.
Let's iterate over it.
And then we'll store items here
just make it easier for us.
Items is state.items, right?
And then we will go through and
we'll say, for const item of items.
We'll go through and
we'll say subtotal plus equals and
when see something wrong with my logic.
Just call it out.
Subtotal it will equal
the item.quantity times item.price.
Right on, yeah,
we're not using it yet, I will.
And so we'll go through and,
if we look at the summary component
needs a few other things.
It's expecting the subtotal,
the tipAmount and the total.
So we've got that.
If we go ahead and we look in our state,
we can see a tipPercentage is stored as
a whole number as state.tipPercentage.
So we can grab, right?
We've only grabbed one thing at a time,
we have the entire state
tree available to us.
We can use the entire state tree and
this is useful for computing data.
So all right.
So, will say, the const
tipAmount will be that subtotal
Times the state.tipPercentage
Divided by a 100.
And finally the total is simpler.
That one's easy.
It's just gonna be
subtotal plus tipamount.
So here we don't have a tipAmount or
a total or subtotal stored in state, but
this is what the component is expecting.
So we can just given the props at once.
Using map state to props,
we are taking different pieces of state.
We'll say cool,
you're gonna get a subtotal,
you're gonna get a tipAmount and
you're gonna get a total, great.
So we have all that in place, and
now we just need to pass it
into the component itself.
So we'll say export
const Summary Container,
Is equal to connect.
And we'll do this mapStateProps.
If you really wanted to pass this function
in as the first argument you could.
If it's really simple you might
be able to, but I wouldn't.
And then we can say the Summary
component that we have, As well.
And now we've just gotta swap out
in our kinda main calculator here,
Summary for SummaryContainer.
We'll see if I made any mistakes.
This will be a ../containers.
All right, let's see what we got.
We'll give it a good refresh.
One small issue as I had, after joking
about eventually misspelling quantity,
I misspelled quantity.
So we go back.
We can see that we've got
everything kinda in place here.
I made allusions to, like this is simple.
We're adding numbers.
We're multiplying numbers, right?
We're kinda taking pieces of our state,
manipulating it in the way
that the component expects.
And returning the props of that component
wants based on the state from redux.
The reference of maybe four is like this
is fine for multiplying adding numbers.
What do we do if things get
a little bit more expensive?
And we think about what
we know about react.
We know that there are patterns around
this, like earlier we saw use memo and
even use effect.
We can see like most of those API's and
react,
take an array of things that say hey,
don't call this again unless
something in this array changes.
In react for use callback and use memo.
We're saying like no matter how
many times this hook gets called.
Unless something in this array is
different than the last time you called
it, don't even try to compute any values.
Just give me back the same
thing you got last time.
And that solves a lot of our problem
around like whatever this is
an expensive thing, so on and so forth.
And there's some other powerful parts
of the pattern we're gonna talk about,
which is going back to this
idea of using selectors.
But there is a library that is frequently
used with reactor called reflect.
And reselect allows you to do is very
similar with that array like syntax.
For caching values that we've seen
in use callback and use memo.
And I guess to an extent use a fact and
react and allows us to use it.
And again, since it is just
regular JavaScript and redux,
it allows us to use it with redux as well.
A lot of things we're talking about is
just simply a pattern implemented using
just functions and objects.
So things that work with just functional
objects will work with redux.
And so we'll kinda talk
through this a little bit.
We're gonna reimplement some
of this logic here as well.
One of the things that we saw
in the chat was like okay,
what does the reduced version
of this look like as well?
And we can do that too, which is simply
if we wanna do const subtotal,
would be items.reduce.
We'll take the sum, the item that we're
working through and we will return,
Sum plus.
Item.price.
I don't need the prices.
Item.price times item.quantity.
And with a starting value of 0, right?
So we could theoretically
unless I made a mistake,
swap it in whichever syntax you like more,
they both basically do the same thing.
I'll just refresh that real quick.
Everything still works,
whichever syntax makes you happier.
This works through the array,
accumulating all the return values of
each function to the sum starting at 0.
So each time we add in
the sum plus the next item,
whichever one it's totally fine me